docs/development/soc_fpga_communication.md, before:

# Communication between SoC and FPGA

This document describes how FPGA and SoC communicate with each other in TwPM
project for NEORV32. State presented here is valid for release v0.2.0 of top
module.

## Memory map

| Address    | Size | Name     | Access |
|------------|------|----------|--------|
| 0xF0000000 | 4B   | STATUS   | RO     |
| 0xF0000004 | 4B   | OP_TYPE  | RO     |
| 0xF0000008 | 4B   | LOCALITY | RO     |
| 0xF000000C | 4B   | BUF_SIZE | RO     |
| 0xF0000040 | 4B   | COMPLETE | WO     |
| 0xF0000800 | 2KiB | FPGA_RAM | RW     |

Reads from invalid addresses in 0xF0000000-0xF0000FFF range return `0xBADFABAC`
(BAD FABric ACcess), writes are dropped. Most values are valid only if `exec`
bit in `STATUS` register is set.

## Registers

Reserved bits are read as 0. They may change in the future.

### STATUS

![Layout of STATUS register](/images/reg-status.png)

* `exec` indicates that MCU is expected to act upon request sent from FPGA,
  specified in `OP_TYPE` register. [Interrupt](#interrupts) is generated when
  this signal gets set by FPGA.
* `abort` is set when PC aborts command currently being executed by TPM.
* `complete` is a signal sent towards FPGA by writing to `COMPLETE` register.
  The signal is active for a few cycles after write to that register, after that
  is should be automatically set back to 0.

### OP_TYPE

![Layout of OP_TYPE register](/images/reg-op-type.png)

* `op_type` is a type of operation expected from MCU. 0 is used as a default
  value to which this register returns after `complete` signal is acknowledged
  by FPGA. 0xC is reserved as it may be part of 0xBADFABAC magic value. This
  register is only valid if `exec` is set.

| op_type | Operation                                  |
|--------:|--------------------------------------------|
| 0x0     | No operation                               |
| 0x1     | Execute TPM2 command located in `FPGA_RAM` |
| 0xC     | Illegal operation type                     |
| other   | Reserved for future use                    |

### LOCALITY

![Layout of LOCALITY register](/images/reg-locality.png)

* `locality` specifies the locality at which the current operation was
  initiated. Value 0xF is used when no locality was active at that point. This
  field is only valid if `exec` is set.

### BUF_SIZE

![Layout of BUF_SIZE register](/images/reg-buf-size.png)

* `buf_size` specifies size (in bytes) of data available in FPGA RAM, which is
  usually a TPM2 command. This field is only valid if `exec` is set. TPM stack
  is not expected to write size of response to this field, it is deduced from
  response's payload.

### COMPLETE

Any write to this register triggers `complete` signal to be sent to FPGA. Reads
from this register aren't implemented, meaning that 0xBADFABAC is returned.

## FPGA RAM

This region behaves like RAM if `exec` is set. Its content depends on `op_type`,
which in most cases will be TPM2 command. Response is written by MCU to this
buffer, starting from offset 0, overwriting the command.

When `exec` is not set, data read from this region is invalid and writes are
dropped.

## Interrupts

TwPM needs to communicate from FPGA towards SoC when there is an operation to be
performed by TPM stack. This is done through `mext_irq_i`, which is responsible
for signaling Machine external interrupt (MEI). This signal is level-triggered
and high-active. MEI has a dedicated value in `mcause`, shared between all
external interrupts. The exact reason has to be obtained in a platform-specific
way; in case of TwPM it can be read from `STATUS` register.

The interrupt signal remains active until SoC signals completion by performing
a write to `COMPLETE` register.

Commit message:

development/soc_fpga_communication.md: improve interrupts section
Interrupts must be masked after a command is received, otherwise IRS
would keep being invoked, which would effectively block any progress
in command execution.

Signed-off-by: Krystian Hebel <krystian.hebel@3mdeb.com>

docs/development/soc_fpga_communication.md, after:

# Communication between SoC and FPGA

This document describes how FPGA and SoC communicate with each other in TwPM
project for NEORV32. State presented here is valid for release v0.2.0 of top
module.

## Memory map

| Address    | Size | Name     | Access |
|------------|------|----------|--------|
| 0xF0000000 | 4B   | STATUS   | RO     |
| 0xF0000004 | 4B   | OP_TYPE  | RO     |
| 0xF0000008 | 4B   | LOCALITY | RO     |
| 0xF000000C | 4B   | BUF_SIZE | RO     |
| 0xF0000040 | 4B   | COMPLETE | WO     |
| 0xF0000800 | 2KiB | FPGA_RAM | RW     |

Reads from invalid addresses in 0xF0000000-0xF0000FFF range return `0xBADFABAC`
(BAD FABric ACcess), writes are dropped. Most values are valid only if `exec`
bit in `STATUS` register is set.

## Registers

Reserved bits are read as 0. They may change in the future.

### STATUS

![Layout of STATUS register](/images/reg-status.png)

* `exec` indicates that MCU is expected to act upon request sent from FPGA,
  specified in `OP_TYPE` register. [Interrupt](#interrupts) is generated when
  this signal gets set by FPGA.
* `abort` is set when PC aborts command currently being executed by TPM.
* `complete` is a signal sent towards FPGA by writing to `COMPLETE` register.
  The signal is active for a few cycles after write to that register, after that
  is should be automatically set back to 0.

### OP_TYPE

![Layout of OP_TYPE register](/images/reg-op-type.png)

* `op_type` is a type of operation expected from MCU. 0 is used as a default
  value to which this register returns after `complete` signal is acknowledged
  by FPGA. 0xC is reserved as it may be part of 0xBADFABAC magic value. This
  register is only valid if `exec` is set.

| op_type | Operation                                  |
|--------:|--------------------------------------------|
| 0x0     | No operation                               |
| 0x1     | Execute TPM2 command located in `FPGA_RAM` |
| 0xC     | Illegal operation type                     |
| other   | Reserved for future use                    |

### LOCALITY

![Layout of LOCALITY register](/images/reg-locality.png)

* `locality` specifies the locality at which the current operation was
  initiated. Value 0xF is used when no locality was active at that point. This
  field is only valid if `exec` is set.

### BUF_SIZE

![Layout of BUF_SIZE register](/images/reg-buf-size.png)

* `buf_size` specifies size (in bytes) of data available in FPGA RAM, which is
  usually a TPM2 command. This field is only valid if `exec` is set. TPM stack
  is not expected to write size of response to this field, it is deduced from
  response's payload.

### COMPLETE

Any write to this register triggers `complete` signal to be sent to FPGA. Reads
from this register aren't implemented, meaning that 0xBADFABAC is returned.

## FPGA RAM

This region behaves like RAM if `exec` is set. Its content depends on `op_type`,
which in most cases will be TPM2 command. Response is written by MCU to this
buffer, starting from offset 0, overwriting the command.

When `exec` is not set, data read from this region is invalid and writes are
dropped.

## Interrupts

TwPM needs to communicate from FPGA towards SoC when there is an operation to be
performed by TPM stack. This is done through `mext_irq_i`, which is responsible
for signaling Machine external interrupt (MEI). This signal is level-triggered
and high-active. MEI has a dedicated value in `mcause`, shared between all
external interrupts. The exact reason has to be obtained in a platform-specific
way; in case of TwPM it can be read from `STATUS` register, however, as of now
only `exec` generates an interrupt so this check is redundant.

The interrupt signal remains active until SoC signals completion by performing
a write to `COMPLETE` register. For this reason, the IRQ must be masked when TPM
command is being executed outside of interrupt service routine (ISR).
