# Hardware requirements of TwPM module

TwPM is 

---
# Acronyms
* Legend:
* PTP – Platform TPM Profile
* CRB – Command Response Buffer interface
* DDWG – Device Driver’s Writers Guide
* Certification PP – Certification Protection Profile
* TIS – TPM Interface Specification

---
# TCG PC Client Specific TPM Interface Specification
* link: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_PCClientTPMInterfaceSpecification_TIS__1-3_27_03212013.pdfa
* Version, revision: Specification Version 1.3; Revision 27
* Page 15: (power sequence)
* Page 16: usage of GPIO as optional interface betweent TPM command IF
and the external device.
* 5.6.5 Command duration, p. 51
* 5.7 Interface capability, (SPI requirements, against data format length)
* 5.9 LPC interrupts (Serial IRQ; SIRQ, SERIRQ)
* TPM Hardware interface
* 6.4 SPI hardware Protocol
 - TPM needs dedicated SPI ChipSelect# (CS#)
 - TPM interface Specification 1.21 defines all registers as having
a size of 4B or less. This register size is maintained for compatibility
with software. This applies to the `TPM_HASH_X` function, which
may be generated by HW, because the TPM's data register is only 4B. 
No additional registers are defined for registers that might be greater
than 4B...
* 6.4.1 Clocking of the SPI interface. 
* (line 1331) The SPI bus clock frequency may vary based on implementation
and/or type of device attached. The TPM default clock frequency for PC Client
platforms is defined to be 24MHz, but in future might be higher frequencies.

* 6.4.2 Electrical specification of the SPI interface. 
* (line 1372)
* (Table 28) AC electrical specifications
  (TPM SPI Pin Capacitance: 10pF
* 6.4.3 SPI Interrupts (compliance with the LPC specification support
a serial interrupt, SIRQ.
* 6.4.4 Legacy I/0
* 6.4.5. Flow Control (thorough description)
* 6.6 Important: Reset Timing
* (Table 30) Pin Assignments
* Signal: 
  - TPM_Init (LRESET#/SPI_RST#) signal connected to platform CPU Reset signa
  - TPM main power pins (3V) must be connected such that the TPM is powered
  during ACPI states S0-S2 and may be powered in S3-S5
  - Optional implementation VBAT and/or 3VSB pins
* 7. External References 

---
# TCG PC Client Platform Physical Presence Interface Specification
* link: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/Physical-Presence-Interface_1-30_0-52.pdf
* Version 1.30 Revision 0.0.52
* ACPI Functions
---
# Bibliography
* Trusted Computing Group, PC Client specific Platform, TPM Profile
https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/PC-Client-Specific-Platform-TPM-Profile-for-TPM-2p0-v1p04_r0p37_pub-1.pdf

* Trusted Computing Group, collection of documents, abbreviations, acronyms
https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/work-groups/pc-client/


